Now we already learned a lot about some built-in validators, now before we move towards this array here
where we can add multiple hobbies which of course is interesting when it comes to a validation perspective,
let's move to this check box and let's do two things,
I want to make sure that it is required but only if let's say the country is not any country of your
choice, so let's say if it's not Germany, just picking a random country because well I'm coming from there,
let's say if it is Germany, then you don't have to tick that box because for some complex legal reasons
which we have in Germany, we are not allowed to force you to accept the terms, something like that.
So we essentially have a required if condition or to be very precise, a requiredUnless condition, you're
required to check this unless you picked Germany in a totally different input.
Now I think that's also an interesting case and it's surprisingly easy to implement,
so how can we implement it?
Let's first start with a general required rule for the checkbox,
I'll name this terms, this rule and I'll simply required the required validator, the normal one.
Now with that set up, I can go up to my template and there on this checkbox input, going to distribute this
over multiple lines,
I want to listen for the @change event which is fired whenever we click this input, this checkbox
and I then want to trigger $v.terms was the name of the validation group,
$touched,
as before, touch not touched.
So this is the method I want to execute, now to see if something changes I'll add my old class to this
my class binding to this wrapping div
where I'll add the invalid class if $v.terms has $error.
With that let's go back and let's see if that works,
right now it's not marked as invalid because we have set this up to only be marked as invalid if we
have an error and an error is only fired once we had a chance to click
but if I do click here and I uncheck this, it's marked as invalid.
On a side note for this specific case, it might be more helpful to not check for
$error but $invalid to mark it as invaled right from the start
when we load this page so that it's obvious we need to check this.
So this is working but this is the normal required validator,
now we want to use this other one.
First of all let's import it, requiredUnless is the name
and this allows us to connect this with some other value.
So now, I'll still name this required but I'll assign requiredUnless as a value and just as sameAs, this
is a function.
Now for this function as before, we receive access to the vue instance and now here, we can return true
or false,
if I return true here, we go back, you see that's now always treated as correct no matter what I
do, if I return false, it's always treated as invalid
therefore, if I go back you see it's always red.
Of course, hard coding true or false doesn't make much sense
but we can now check if vm and now we have to check the name of this dropdown,
so that was country, we're binding to a property named country.
We want a check if country is essentially not equal to Germany because that is the value we have for
this option which is treated as invalid
as I said.
So we simply check here if vm, country is the property name, if it is equal to Germany, what this means is
that if country is Germany, then it is required because here we have requiredUnless, so unless the country
is Germany, it is required.
So the required validator, the normal required validator will be attached if the country we selected
is not Germany.
So with that, if we go back and reload this page, you see it's still red at the beginning, if I
check it, it's fine though because it works as a normal required validator now,
if we switch the country to Germany though, you see it becomes black in all cases because now
it's not required anymore.
So this is required if another nice validator which also shows you
another powerful feature of vuelidate.